PAUL LEWIS: Hello again.
So somebody on YouTube
remarked, well, day one to sick
seemed to be like messing
around with header,
and day seven it's
like all done.
Actually, you're not far wrong.
And there was a lot
of set up for it.
But actually, the styles
that got onto the page
were done pretty quickly.
It was just a lot of
fluxbox and I'm not actually
that interested--
there wasn't actually
a bunch of challenges in there.
So it didn't really
make much sense
to record entries for that.
But as you might
recall, we've done
all the accessibility stuff at
least for the starting version,
and the next step is to now go
into progressive enhancement
mode.
And that's exactly
what I've been doing
and I will show you
exactly what's what really.
So if you look at
the screen, you
remember that before when
we clicked on a link,
it would take us to a new page.
Well, it still does that.
But now it goes and actually
hot swaps the content for us.
So it's a lot
cleaner, if you like.
It's a lot sort up here.
I don't know what the--
it's good, I think.
It's nice.
It's nicer than
reloading the page
and that's working out
really well for me.
Here's one other
thing that people
were saying in the comments.
They were saying, why--
without the masthead--
why are you so obsessed with
clipping it, rather than just
overlaying a block?
And here's why.
When we go to the
livestream section,
watch what the yellow
strip, just below location--
watch what that does.
See how it slides
down and reveals
that content-- the live
now and the up next.
And also when I leave
that section-- let's say,
go to the code of conduct.
It slides up.
And so for that to actually
work, the photo in the masthead
has to be clipped.
If I don't clip it, then that
whole effect wouldn't work.
So that's why I wanted it,
so that it could slide out
the content from underneath.
So that's basically it.
Now, in terms of the actual
code that underpins this,
let me show you
around a little bit.
It's all in the
CDS.js right now.
And there are some
challenges, shall
we put it, with the fact that
I'm not supporting just Chrome.
So I can't use Const and Let and
a bunch of ES 2015 type stuff.
I didn't really
want to trans-pilot.
I'd rather I think just--
because there's not
that much code-- I
think I'd rather just
write the ES5 myself
and be done with that.
It's not like it's-- it's a bit
of a shame and it does cause me
a couple of challenges in a
couple places, but oh well.
So when you click on a
link, I hijack all clicks
with document.addEventListener.
Now, I'm not a big fan
of delegating all clicks
to a big handler like
this, but it's not
a big site and it's
something that we
can get away with I guess.
We basically call this
on click and the target--
we start there.
And basically, I
work my way back up
to find the nearest anchor.
There is element.closest,
which you'll
find if you Google for it.
But it's not supported
everywhere yet.
I think it was Edge
that didn't support it.
So I have to basically
write a little
do while-- do while--
it's in there.
Do while's are the funniest
because I only ever use one
probably every 6 to 12
months, but when I need it,
oh, it's the best
little construct ever.
Find the nearest anchor.
And then basically
decide if it's
an internal link, as
it's got slash dev
somewhere in its href.
Great.
I basically go to
that, and we'll
talk about that in a moment.
And then if it's YouTube,
I tell the video handler
to begin playback.
And I'll talk about the
video handler probably
in the next entry, because
I'm still working on it,
still refining that a little
bit-- not quite sure where
that's at in my own mind.
Anyway, anything
that's not internal
will basically just do
what it's supposed to do,
just won't prevent default.
But if it's an internal link,
we prevent default and we go to
that your URL, which basically
involves pushing state on and
then calling this unchanged.
And the unchanged
is basically going
to be fired when
we go to the URL
or when the pop state happens.
So all it's going
to do is fairly--
it puts this routing code
right into the middle of it.
It basically says, if I
either actively start to go
or if I passively find
there's a pop state,
as in the URL changed,
tell me about it
and this unchanged will fire
and we'll decide what to do.
And if you've come across the
supercharged rooter episode,
that's exactly
what we did there.
And that's why I'm applying
the same concepts in production
because I know that they
will work just fine.
So what does the unchange do?
Well, it's actually
all the way up here.
It grabs the path, makes
a new XHR and loads it.
And some people would say,
why are you not using Fetch?
Well, Fetch won't let you set
a response type of document.
There's a good
reason for it. it's
because you can fetch
inside a Service Worker,
and Service Worker,
like every other worker,
doesn't have any
notion of the DOM
and therefore it doesn't
support getting things back
as documents.
So I have to make a
request as an XHR.
I don't have a problem with
that personally, because XHRs
are still completely valid.
They're not deprecated.
OK, they don't return a
promise but that's OK.
I can live with that.
And so we basically
load whatever
it was that you were-- whichever
page you were going to.
We update the nav and then
I'll show you the small player.
Oh, there's a fun thing--
maybe leave you a little hint
of that at the end of this.
Right.
The onload-- what we do is we
hide and swap Area Contents.
So that's the bit where
everything kind of fades out.
Let's head down there.
Yeah.
I'm basically going to watch
the masthead graphic transition
out.
So the masthead graphic
is the longest running
of the fade out.
So I basically apply this
hide areas class to the body
and underneath in
the styles-- let
me show you the masthead
styles since we're here.
Masthead inline-- there we are.
If the page is animatable
and I have a separate class
for switching on
and off animations--
and I've told you
to hide errors,
then the masthead graphic
should turn to opacity 0
and it should take
half a second to do so.
At the end of that, the
transition end will fire
and that's where
everything kicks off.
Because at this point,
we've got the new contents.
We've loaded in hopefully all
the content from the new page.
And we get the title
on the new graphic
and the new-- everything
about the new page.
And we swap it in
for the existing one.
So everything that we
are going to swap out
has been faded down.
We swap everything out
and then we basically
wait a couple of frames.
And it's a slightly bizarre
technique, this one.
Because the event
could fire somewhere
in the middle of the
frame, you actually
want to typically
wait two frames.
So you wait for the
start of the next frame,
so that anything that
was pending happens.
And then you wait another
frame, and then you actually
do your actual animation.
I would prefer it if
we had some mechanism
to say, let me know when
this work is done-- whatever
the work is, when it's
been applied and rasterized
and put to screen, and
then do my next step.
But at the moment, the double
ref is what I'm having to do.
And it's a bit-- because
I'm to bind it because I
can't use arrow functions.
I would like it if I could.
Anyway, so at the end of that,
so we basically fade out, swap
the content, fade back in.
And then there's
just a bit of tidy up
about toggling a couple
bits of area hidden.
When this is done,
I'm going to have
to go back and do some of
the accessibility checking
again, because I want to make
sure that we don't completely
lose focus on the page.
Because I have a feeling that in
some context, we actually will.
And I probably want to take you
to the header of the new page.
That's, what I
understand, is normal.
Talking accessibility-- a
bit of an update for you--
I showed Rob Dodson the
accessibility work that I did.
And he was like, yeah,
that's all really good.
The only thing you
probably wouldn't do
is that thing that you
were really proud of, Paul,
with the SFJAZZ thing,
where it said SFJAZZ.
You don't really need to
adjust what the screen
reader is going to say.
People who use screen
readers apparently
are fairly comfortable
with the fact
that content won't necessarily
be announced correctly
in all cases, but
it's good enough
and they're used to enough that
it's not really a big deal.
So he just was saying,
you don't really
need to go out of your
way to correct that stuff.
On the other side of
it, I was like, well,
I would rather it said SFJAZZ
because that's what it is.
But I kind of
understand his point,
that you don't need to go
all the way to 10 out of 10
on making sure that everything
sounds absolutely perfect.
That's not necessarily the
ideal or practical approach.
But there you go.
I said it was a journey, like
all of this stuff I'm going on.
So that's essentially
what we're doing right now
for the hot swapping
of sections.
At least on desktop,
it's nice and fast.
Let me show you a
timeline profile.
Schedule-- and so you've
got this animation out here.
So you-- basically, this
is the click handler here.
And then we have
an animation now
with admittedly one
long frame in there.
Then this is the swap
over section here.
And psychologically,
there's a break for people
because you've faded
out the content
and there's a break, where by
doing the initial animation,
you've acknowledged
their action.
So that's fine.
So you're like, OK.
You've responded
instantly to my click.
And then there's
this swap over moment
where we buy ourselves
a little bit of time.
So we can afford this
gap in the middle,
is what I'm saying, because it's
not one continuous animation.
And then the
secondary animation,
where it's coming back in,
again, very similar-- a couple
of long frames.
Not disastrous but
broadly very convenient--
I say convenient--
broadly very performant.
And the reason
it's performant is
because I'm sticking to
opacity and transform,
which, if you've followed any
of the supercharged videos,
it's something that [INAUDIBLE]
and I talk about very often.
So there you go.
That's essentially
what I've got for now.
From going page to
page to page, we've
enhanced-- if the JavaScript
fails or isn't running,
we know that we'll
be falling back
to link to link to link to link.
So that's not a big deal.
So we've progressively
enhanced into something
that hopefully should work.
That's it for now.
I will quickly show
you the video stuff.
Let me mute my screen there.
So this is what we got.
And if we-- at the moment-- if
we go to a different section,
it goes down to a small
video in the corner
so you can continue watching.
And if you going into another
thing with another video,
and you click on that,
then it replaces it.
And then bla, bla bla-- and if
you go back into-- let's see,
go back.
It brings the video
back up to full screen
if you go back to the place
where the video originated.
More of that in the next
video about the videos.
Check out the code.
Subscribe if you
haven't already.
Keep on commenting.
Keep on saying hello.
Keep on throwing in your
ideas and suggestions.
I do really appreciate them.
They're often very good.
And it's lovely
to read them all.
So thank you for that.
And I will catch you
in the next entry.
Toodleloo.
[MUSIC PLAYING]